- While progressing through your learning goals,
you'll start to build a collection
of notes, examples, and projects
as you explore each new technology.
Throughout my career,
I found it helpful to save these artifacts
as part of my developer notebook.
It's my own specialized knowledge base
where I write down key concepts
in my own words and store the code examples
I've used to explore them.
A developer notebook is a great way to capture
that mental map of concepts and resources we talked
about earlier in the course, and you'll thank yourself
as you leverage it throughout your career.
There are two parts to my developer notebook.
First are the code examples
in projects that I store on GitHub.
GitHub is a free source code management system
that is widely used by developers.
I store these code examples
in private repositories that only I can access.
That way, they're not publicly visible,
but I have them to expand upon and reference.
Then, I also maintain my own private Confluence site
to store all of my notes
as I learn and work through new concepts.
Within these notes,
I often link back to the code examples in GitHub.
You can use any tool here.
Something like a private SharePoint site
or OneNote might work best for you.
Just make sure
that whatever tool you choose provides a feature
that allows you to organize
and search the information you collect,
and that you'll own it forever.
You can see those were a little messy,
but they're just for me to reference and work with.
From the projects in your notebook,
you'll want to select a few
that you can use to publicly showcase your work
and demonstrate your technical skills
with potential employers in a developer portfolio.
Just remember that everything you share
through your portfolio should be nicely packaged
and be of semi-professional quality,
because it might be reviewed by a potential employer.
So you need to put a little bit of extra work
into the projects that you choose to spotlight
in your portfolio.
A great way to share these projects
is through a personal blog that gathers them together
within a portfolio section.
That's why I recommend making your own small blog
as one of your first projects.
Inside of the blog's portfolio section,
you can list each project and a small description about it.
Then for each project,
you can include a link to its source code,
which is publicly shared on GitHub,
and a link to the actual project if it's web based.
As you build out the projects
for your portfolio, you can take it a step further
and author small articles for your blog
that capture and demonstrate what you learned.
If you take this approach, you'll amass
a wonderful portfolio throughout your career
that features examples of your work explained
with articles that showcase your expertise
on different technical topics.
Having this portfolio can be a differentiator
when you start applying for positions,
especially the first one,
because it demonstrates some experience at a point
when you might not have an extensive work history.
So, get started on your portfolio early.
It's a great way to reuse those projects you create
while learning
to code that will make you stand out with employers.